# ai-case-study3
# Artificial Intelligence in the Gaming Industry
## In this case study I will be describing the impact that Artificial Intelligence (AI) is making when designing games when it comes to None Player Characters (NPC’s), artwork, layout of the games, designing objectives, and writing the story. The company chosen will be Blizzard Entertainment. Blizzard Entertainment has been an innovative company that has made huge impacts in the gaming industry by releasing games such as Overwatch, Diablo, Warcraft, and my personal favorite World of Warcraft (WOW). Blizzard had merged with another well known gaming company back in 2023, that company is Activision. Activision is known for the Call of Duty games which is one of the best first person shooter’s (FPS) games to be released. This merger happened in 2023 changing the overall name of the two companies to Activision Blizzard. Activision Blizzard is known as a triple A company for the type of products they release.
* Activision Blizzard
* Activision was founded on October 1 1979, Blizzard was founded on February 8, 1991, Activision Blizzard was founded on October 13, 2023
* Activision was founded by Alan Miller, Bob Whitehead, David Crane, Jim Levy, and Larry Kaplan. Blizzard was founded by Allen Adham, Frank Pearce, and Michael Morhaime.
* Activision was founded by a group of Atari game developers who were upset with management because they weren’t allowing them to design the games how they wanted to. Blizzard was founded by a group of UCLA students who were interested in developing their own electronic games
* Activision Blizzard has received $4.47 billion in funding across 233 funding rounds with 637 investors.
## Activision Blizzard’s Activities
* What specific problem is the company or project trying to solve?
* Activision Blizzard has a lot of problems developing their new AI program because they’re having to start it from nothing. This project is looking to change the way games are developed in the future by optimizing the amount of time it will take to create games. By using AI they’re hoping to expedite the amount time for game release dates, updates for patches to fix problems with the games and for designing artwork and the layout of the environment. With Activision Blizzard wanting to have AI do all of these things when designing games they’re keeping all of the coding private because they’re worried about leaking their code and companies taking the AI and using it to design their own games in the future.
* Who is the company’s intended customer? Is there any information about the market size of this set of customers?
* Their intended customer for their games would be individuals who are looking to purchase their products for entertainment. As for their AI the intended customer is Blizzard and their many smaller game studios that are under their umbrella.
* What solution does this company offer that their competitors do not or cannot offer? (What is the unfair advantage they utilize?)
* An unfair advantage that Activision Blizzard has over their competitors is that they have the funding and reputation to make sure that the AI that they intend to design will have the best AI developers, Coders, and Programmers which will lead to hopefully one of the best AI’s in designing games. With Activision Blizzard owning many smaller gaming studios they intend to use this to assist them when releasing other projects.
* Which technologies are they currently using, and how are they implementing them? (This may take a little bit of sleuthing. You may want to search the company’s engineering blog or use sites like Stackshare to find this information.)
*Currently Activision Blizzard has their gaming AI under strict lock and key, but they do use AI in another way. Hate speech has been a critics go to when talking negatively about the games that Activision Blizzard has released over the years mostly in Call of Duty. Activision Blizzard has developed AI to go through the game chats of the matches hosted in Call of Duty to find the usernames that use hate speech and ban them from their servers.
## Activision Blizzards Landscape
* What field is the company in?
*Gaming Development
* What have been the major trends and innovations of this field over the last 5-10 years?
*Most of the major trends talked about with Activision Blizzard is how poorly their releases have been from the launch. A lot of their new gaming titles have felt like the games are incomplete by most of the consumers. While later you do get a full game from updates and patches. A lot of the consumers of their products feel as if they should take their time before releasing an incomplete game. Activision Blizzard is hoping to fix this problem by implementing AI to help express some of the coding required to complete their projects.
* What are the other major companies in this field?
* Other major companies in the gaming industry is Riot Gaming, Epic Gaming, Bethesda, Square Enix and Larian Studios.
## Activision Blizzard Results
* What has been the business impact of this company so far?
Activision Blizzard has impacted the gaming community in a positive way with the use of their AI in hate speech in their games. While the hate speech is still going on in these games the gamers that have been targeted by hate speech do feel better about returning to the games because they feel safer knowing there are still consequences for those who target them. By these customers feeling safer they’re more willing to buy their products which will boost their revenue.
* What are some of the core metrics that companies in this field use to measure success? How is your company performing based on these metrics?
*Even though Activision Blizzard is one of the top 5 game developing companies in the world they’re owned by Microsoft. Microsoft owns many gaming studios and they view their gaming success through the amount of revenue the games bring in. Activision Blizzard has developed one of, if not the best, massive multiplayer online role playing games (MMORPG) to ever be produced with World of Warcraft (WOW). World of Warcraft has generated $9.23 billion in revenue for Blizzard since its release date on November 23, 2004. This is viewed as one of the biggest successes in gaming history by the players and Microsoft as well.
* How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same field?
* Activision Blizzard is one of the top 5 gaming developing companies in the world. It does place at number five behind Apple Inc in fourth, Microsoft Corporation (Xbox) in third, Sony Corporation (Playstation) in second, and Tencent Holding Limited (Mobile Games) in first.
## Recommendations
* If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer? (This could be something that a competitor offers, or use your imagination!)
*If I was to advise Activision Blizzard on what they should do to help with their AI for gaming development in the future I would bring up the idea of individual NPC’s being able to hold certain conversations so that the game seems endless and is able to grow. They already have this a little in other games like Balder’s Gate 3 which require certain interactions to proceed forward with that NPC’s story.
* Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?
* By doing this the player themselves would be required to invest more time and money into the game to get the full experience of the game. More time to complete the game means more time that the consumer is spending to on the and if they were to monetize the game with a monthly subscription, like they do with World of Warcraft, that will help increase the revenue.
* What technologies would this additional product or service utilize?
* By implementing NPC AI as a selling point for their new games (Product) Activision Blizzard will need to have AI Programmers to program generative AI for each individual NPC in the game. With Python they will need to program the generative AI and utilize Python.
* Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?
*By using Python to program a generative AI they will be able to implement this program into their future products. Once they complete the NPC Generative AI program they will also be able to sell it to their competitors for a profit. This can be a product that is used to change to gaming industry for the better.